When they were almost at the inn --- K. recognized it by a bend in the road ---
it was already almost completely dark. Was he really away for that long? Only
one, maybe two hours by his calculation. He had left in the morning, he was
never hungry, and until recently there had a been a regular daytime bell, but
now there was darkness. "Short days, short days," he said to himself, leaving
the sled and approaching the inn.

Above the small front stairs, the host welcomed him and shone a raised lantern
towards him. Fleetingly having remembered his driver, K. remained where he was
as someone coughed in the darkness; that was him. He would probably see
him soon again. First, when he was over by the host, humbly greeting him, he
saw, on either side of the door, a man. He took the lantern out of the host's
hand and illuminated the two: It was the men that he had met earlier; the ones
who were called Artur and Jeremias. Now, they saluted. In memory of his
time in the military, an these happy times, he smiled. "Who are you?" he asked,
and looked from one to the other. "Your help," they answered. "It's the help,"
confirmed the host, softly. "What?" asked K., "You're my old help, who I had
come after me, who I was waiting for?" They affirmed this. "That's good," said
K., after a while. "It's good that you've come." --- "By the way," said K.,
after an even longer while, "You're quite late; you've been very negligent."
--- "It was a long way," said one of them. "A long way," repeated K, "but I met
you both when you were coming from the castle." --- "Yes," they said, without
further explanation. "Where did you put the equipment?" asked K. "We don't have
it," they said. "The equipment, that I entrusted to you," said K. "We don't
have anything," they repeated. "Oh, be like that!" said K., "Do you know
anything of surveying?" --- "No," they said. "If you're my old help, you've got
to know about that," said K. They were silent. "So come along," said K., and
took them into the house.

So the three of them just sat silently at a tiny table in the inn with their
beers. K. were in the middle, on either side were his help. Aside from them,
there only a table filled with farmers, just like the last evening. "There's
something difficult with you both," K. said, and compared their faces as he had
often already done, "How should I distinguish you? You're different only in
name; completely identical otherwise" --- he stalled involuntarily here ---
"You're as similar as any two snakes." They laughed. "Others are well able to
tell us apart," they said in justification. "I believe you," K. said, "I was
witness to that myself, but I only see with my eyes, and I can't distinguish
you with those. So I'll treet you both like a single man and call you both
Artur. At least that's one of you. Maybe you?" asked K. to one of them. "No,"
that one said, "I'm Jeremias." --- "Well, it's the same either way," said K.,
"I'll call you both Artur. If I send Artur somewhere, you both go. If I give
Artur some work, you both do it. That's really got a big disadvantage for me: I
can't put you both to separate tasks. But there's an advantage: You're both
responsible for everything I ask of you. It's all the same to me how you divide
the work, just don't make excuses for each other, you're as one man to me."
They thought about this for a second and said, "That would be quite unpleasant
for us." --- "How wouldn't it be?" said K., "Of course it'll be unpleasant, but
that's how it'll be." Before any real time had passed, K. saw one of the
farmers sneaking around the table. He had finally made up his mind, going to
one of his helpers to whisper something to him. "Please," sadi K., hitting his
hand on the table and standing up. "These are my helpers, and we're having a
meeting. No one has the right to disturb us." --- "Oh, please, please," said
the farmer fearfully, going right back to his table. "You need to observe
this," said K., sitting agiain. "You must not speak to anyone without my
permission. I'm foreign here, and if you're my old assisstants, then you're
foreign, too. So we three foreigners need to stick together. Give me your
hands." They stretched their hands out to K. all too willingly. "Put your paws
away," he said, "But my command is still valid. I'm going to sleep now, and I
advise you to do the same. We missed a workday today, so we'll need to start
early tomorrow. You must provide a sled with which we can go to the castle. Be
ready at 7." --- "Good," said one of them. The other, driving in between, said,
"Good. And you know that's not possible." --- "Rest," said K., "You're
beginning to seem a little different." But then the first said, "He's right
that that's impossible; no foreigner goes to the castle without permission."
--- "Where do you get that permission?" --- "I don't know, but maybe from the
castellan." --- "Then we'll call the castellan. Call the castellan as soon as
possible!" They ran to the equipment and made the connection --- how crowdeed
there they both were! Outwardly they were comically obedient, asking quickly
whether K. was allowed to come to the castle in tomorrow. K. heard a "No!" on
the other end of the line from his place at the table. The rest of the answer
had no more detail: "Not tomorrow; not any other time." --- "I'll call myself,"
said K., standing up. During him and his assistant's time here, apart from the
one incident with the farmer, they'd received little notice, but this last
remark excited a general attention. Everyone rose with K., and although they
looked to the host pushing them back, they grouped together by the equipment in
a tight semicircle around him. They seemed of the opinion that K. would get no
answer. K. had to ask them to be quiet, demanding not to hear their opinions.

A humming came out of the eaprice; one such that K. had never heard from a
telephone. It was as though the humming was composed of numerous childish
voices --- but this humming wasn't that; it was faraway singing, many far-away
voices --- as if this humming was forming a single high, strong voice, hitting
the ear as if that voice were a demand, intruding deeper than just the sense of
hearing. K. listened without speaking, his left arm having supported the
telephone just to listen.

He didn't know how long this lasted: so long, at least, until the host tugged
on his coat, a messenger having come for him. "Go away!" cried K.,
unrestrained, maybe into the telephone, someone having now appeared. It turned
into this conversation: "This is Oswald, who's there?" he cried, a strict,
arrogant voice, with a small speech impediment, which, it seemed to K., he
tried to compensate for by tightening his voice yet further. K. hesitated to
give his name, defenseless as he was from the telephone, the other able to
thunder down it so well; he put away the mouthpiece, having blocked a perhaps
not unimportant path. K.'s hesitation made the man impatient. "Who's there?" he
repeated and added onwards: "I would be very pleased if you wouldn't call so
much from over there, you know a call was just made a moment ago." K. didn't
engage this observation and reported with a sudden decisiveness: "THese are the
assistants of the surveyor." --- "What assistants? What surveyor?" --- K.
recalled yesterday's conversation. "Ask Fritz," he said quickly. It helped, to
his astonishment. But even more than that, that it helped, he was amazed at the
consistency of the village. The answer was: "I know. The perpetual surveyor.
Yes, yes. What else? What assistant?" "Josef," said K. He was somewhat
disturbed by the murmurs of the farmers behind his back; obviously they were
not in agreement with what he had said. K., however, had no time to deal with
them since the conversation had such a claim on his attention. "Josef?" was
asked back to him. "The asisstants are named" --- a small pause, obviously
exacting the names from someone else --- "Artur and Jeremias." "Those are
the new assistants," said K. "No, those are the old." --- "They're the new, but
I'm the old, the one that the surveyor had come today." --- "No!" he cried now.
"Then who am I?" asked K., quiet up to now. And after a pause the same voice
with the same speech impediment, but mimicking the deeper, more respected voice
of another: "You're the old help."

K., listening to the sound of the voice, almost missed the question: "What do
you want?" He'd have preferred to have already put the receiever down. He
expected nothing more from this conversation. But he nevertheless asked the
forced question: "When will the surveyor be allowed to come to the castle?" ---
"Never," was the answer. "Good," said K., and he put the phone down.

The farmers behind him moved much closer to him. The assistants had, with many
sideways glances towards him, taken up keeping the farmers away. It seemed to
be nothing more than a joke, and even the farmers, satisfied with the results
of the conversation, slowly gave in. The group was then divided with the quick
steps of a man coming from behind them. He bowed in front of K. and handed a
letter over to him.

K. held the letter in his hand and looked at the man, him seeming more
important in the moment. There was a big similarity betwen him and the
assistants; him being as thin as them, still hardly as clothed as them (?!), as
flexible and nible as them, but still quite different.

How K. would have preferred to have him as an assistant! He reminded him
somewhat of the woman with the infant who he had seen with the master tanner.
He was almost all dressed in white with a coat probably made of silk; a
wintercoat like all others, but it had yet the delicacy and ceremony of a silk
coat. His face was light and open with oversized eyes. His smile was immensely
encouraging; he ran his hand over his face as though he had scared away his
smile, but evidently he hadn't succeeded. "Who are you?" K asked. "My name is
Barnabas," he said. "I am a messenger." Despite his masculinity, he softly
opened and closed his lips as he talked. "Do you like it here?" asked K. and
pointed to the farmers, who had not yet quite lost all interest in
him, watching with their literally tortured faces --- Their skulls looked as
though it had been beaten flat, and their facial features as though they had
been formed in that pain of being so beaten --- their thick lips opened their
mouths to look and simultaneously not to look; sometimes their gazes strayed
and stayed, before they returned, clinging to whichever indifferent object. And
then K. indicated his assistants holding each other, cheek to cheek and
smiling, though one couldn't know whether they were humble or mocking. He
indicated this all as if he were introducing via some special circumstance his
forced entourage and as though he were expecting --- here was the
confidence that mattered to K. --- that Barnabas would constantly distinguish
him and them. But Barnabas, of course and evidently in all his innocence,
didn't take that question up at all, letting it go past him like a
well-tempered servant would treat something said by the served meant only,
seemingly, for himself. He responded to the question by looking around himself,
waving hellos to acquaintances among the farmers and exchanging some words with
the assistants; everything freely and individually, but never mixing too
closely with them. K. returned , but never mixing too closely with them. K.
returned, rejected but not shamed, to the letter in his hand, opening it up.
The text read: "You are, as you know, in the taken in the Count's service. Your
supervisor is the mayor of the village, who will inform you of everything
about and related to your work here, and whom you will be accountable to.
Nevertheless, I too will never let you out of my sight. Barnabas, the messenger
of this letter, will ask after you from time to time to learn of your wishes and
to communicate them with me. You will always find me, as much as possible, to
be pleasant. I care about having satisfied workers." The signature was not
legible, but it was printed with: Office X. Chairman. "Wait!" said K., to the
bowing Barnabas, then calling the host so that he show him a room, wanting to
be alone with the letter for a little while. With that he remembered that
Barnabas, despite all K.'s affection, was only a messenger, and ordered him a
beer. He paid attention to how he would react to this: He obviously enjoyed it,
drinking it immediately. Then K. was with the host. Nothing more could be
provided to K. than a small attic room, and even that had its own difficulties
since there were two maids that had been sleeping there up until now, and they
would have to be accomodated elsewhere. Nothing had actually been done but to
move the maids out of the room, which was otherwise hardly changed; no linens
on the only bed, only a few pillows and a horse blanket, just as it was the
last night. On the wall there were a few paintings of saints and pictures of
soldiers. Not once had it been ventilated; it was obviously hoped that new
guests wouldn't stay too long, doing, as they were, nothing to keep them. But
K. was okay with it all, wrapped himself in the blanket, sat by the table, and
began by candlelight to read the letter.

It wasn't uniform; there were places where he were spoken to as though he were
free and his own will acknowledged. This is how the headline was, this was how
the places where his wishes were recognized were. Then again, there were places
where he was openly or from hiding handled as a small, common laborer. The
chairman had to make an effort "not to let him out of his sight," while his
superior was only the mayor, to whom he was accountable. His only co-workers
were maybe the village's police. Those were undoubtedly contradictions, they
were so obvious that they must have been meant to be observed. K. hardly
entertained the insane thought that such an authority let any indecision into
the letter. Therein he saw a much more open, presented choice: It was up to him
what he would like to make of the chaotic letter; whether he wanted to be a
common village worker with, anyway, a large but only seeming connection to the
castle or a only seem to be a village worker with, in fact, conditions of work
determined entirely by what Barnabas had said. K. didn't hesitate in choosing,
and he wouldn't have done so even without his previous experiences. If he were
only a village worker, so far as possible removed from the castle as he was
able, these people in the village who were so distrustful of him would begin to
speak to him, not necessarily as though he were a friend, but as a fellow
citizen, indistinguishable from Gerstäcker or Lasemann --- and how quickly it
needed to happen, how everything depended on it! --- all paths would suddenly
open to him, paths that would be not just closed but invisible if decided by
the men above. Of course a danger existed, emphasized enough in the letter,
presented with a certain joy, as though it were inescapable. It was that being
of a worker. Service, his supervisor, work, wage regulations, accountability,
employees --- the letter was teeming with them, even if something more personal
was said, it was expressed from every viewpoint. If K. would be a worker, it
could be that but in all fearful seriousness without any look elsewhere. K.
knew he wasn't threatened with any real obligation, he didn't fear that at
least, but the violence of the discouraging environment, the habituation of
disappointments, the violence of imperceptible influence at every moment, this
he feared nonetheless, but it was with this danger that he must venture the
struggle.
