In the bar, in the wholly empty middle of the room, some farmers were sitting
on the walls of barrels, though they seemed different than those in the K.'s
inn. They wore, more neatly and more uniformly, gray-ish yellow, rough clothes;
their jackets were inflated, their panst closely fitted. At first glance, they
seemed to have very similarly flat, bony, and round-cheeked faces. Everyone was
quiet and hardly moving, only acknowledging the entrance with their glances,
though only slowly and with indifference. Despite that, they exerted, because
there were so many and it was so quiet, a certain effect on K. He took Olga's
arm again, using it to explain his presence here to the people. In one corner,
a man stood up, an acquaintance of Olga's, and wanted to go up to her,, but K.
turned them around in another direction with his interlocked arm.  No one but
she could have notice, and she tolerated it with a sideways smile.

The beer was delivered by a young girl named Frieda. She was an inconspicuous,
small, blonde girl with sad eyes and thin cheeks, but she had a surprising look
of some special superiority. When this gaze fell upon K., it seemed to him that
this gaze identified some relevant things in K., the existence of which he
himself knew nothing about; the existence of which shown with that look. K.
didn't listen to Frieda speak over from his side, even as she was already
speaking with Olga. Olga and Frieda did not appear to be friends; they
exchanged only a few cold words. K. wanted to help, asking abruptly: "Do you
know Mr. Klamm?" Olga laughed. "Why aer you laughing?" asked K., annoyed. "No,
no, I'm not laughing," she said, but laughing more. "So Olga's a real childish
girl," said K. and bent far over the table to firmly see Frieda's expression
again. But she stopped him and said lightly, "Would you like to see Mr. Klamm?"
K. said yes. She pointed to a door just left of them. "Here's a small peephole,
you can look through it." --- "And the people here?" asked K. She rose her
lower lip up and lead K. with an incredibly soft hand to the door. Through the
small peephole, obviously drilled for this purposoe, he almost saw the whole
next-door room.

At a desk in the middle of the room, on a comfortable, round chair sat, luridly
lit by a light bulb hung down before him, Mr. Klamm. He was a man of average
height, fat, wide, and clumsy in appearance. His face was smooth, but his
cheeks were weighed down already by the weight of age. His black mustache was
grown out long.
